hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with tomato bisque that's right
we're doing tomato soups richer and
slightly more promiscuous cousin the
tomato bisque and if you're worried you
can't make this because you don't have
access to fresh vine ripened tomatoes
don't worry we're not going to use any
that's right we're going to use canned
tomatoes but don't worry all will be
explained okay so the first step here is
going to be fairly standard soup making
procedure we're going to put our soup
pot over medium heat with a little bit
of olive oil in it and we're going to
sweat some onions and celery and as
usual we're going to add a big pinch of
salt that's going to help bring out a
little bit of that liquid so we're going
to give that a stir and we're simply
going to cook that for about I don't
know six or seven minutes five or six
minutes I never time it I just cook it
over medium heat until the onions kind
of soften and turn translucent and look
something like that see and there's the
magic of video that would take me like a
paragraph to describe the look but we
don't have to you can just look at and
go ah that's what it means okay so at
that point we're going to add our garlic
and give that a stir and we're going to
cook that for just like a minute the
only real way to screw up this step
would be to Brown the garlic which
reminds me to tell you do not brown the
garlic alright just saute it for like a
minute and then we're going to introduce
our liquid I'm going to use chicken
broth that's my personal choice of
course a vegetable stock will work
beautifully here especially one made
with mushrooms mushrooms and tomatoes
always delicious and if times you're
tough you could just use water that's
fine well not really fine but it'll work
so we're gonna pour that in we're going
to give it a stir and then it's time for
the star of the show the tomatoes and
I'm going to use one large can of
crushed san marzano tomatoes oh we've
talked about those before
and on the blog post I will explain in
detail why I'm not using fresh tomatoes
for this and spoiler alert it's the
exact same reasons we usually don't use
fresh tomatoes for tomato sauces and by
the way if you can't find crush san
marzano the can of whole san marzano
will work you just got to crush them
yourself
and that would be fine because we're
going to blend all this anyway so we're
going to stir in our tomatoes we're
going to raise the heat we want to bring
this up to a simmer so I'm going to turn
my flame up to high and while we're
waiting for it to bubble let's go ahead
and season this up a little bit I'm
going to go with some freshly ground
black pepper a little touch of cayenne
and a little bit of paprika I'm using
the plain but I have used the smoked
paprika before in this and it is lovely
at this
I probably had a little more salt also
but my chicken broth was perfectly
seasoned
so I'll taste and adjust for that later
and besides the salt I'll warn you right
now we're also going to add some sugar
to this very critical ingredients but
I'm going to wait on that too okay so
all we're gonna do is simply wait for
this to come up to a simmer
at which point we're going to stir in
the ingredient that really makes this a
bisque and that would be the rice so
we're gonna stir in about three
tablespoons of regular white long grain
rice actually used a variety of rice
called jasmine but really anything will
work and just like saying Jasmine
jasmine its we're stirring the rice and
that's what's going to thicken up this
soup but it's going to be silky not
starchy which is kind of funny because
we're adding starch but it's not going
to be that kind of starch and as you get
if you add a whole bunch of flour based
Roux or cornstarch and that's another
thing I'll talk about more on the blog
post and then the game plan here is I
want you to adjust the heat down to low
medium low which ever provides you with
a nice steady simmer and while that's
simmering if you want to skim any foam
off or any of the fat that rises to the
top
feel free this is not my biscuits your
bisque so I did do a little bit of
recreational skimming and all we're
going to do is let that simmer for about
35 to 45 minutes or until the rice and
vegetables are absolutely as soft as
they can be and the mixture should look
something similar to this now at this
point we're going to turn the heat all
the way down to low and we're going to
give it a taste and I'm tasting four
salts but more importantly I'm tasting
four sugar
all right depending on how sweet your
tomatoes are you're definitely going to
need to add some sugar here you may
actually need a couple teaspoons in here
to get it tasting like you want all
right so I tested mine I stirred in some
sugar and some salt but I'm not done
after this is all blended we're going to
adjust this again at the end and then
we're going to take our immersion
blender and we're going to very
carefully blend this absolutely smooth
all right this is obviously edited but
you're going to let that blend for at
least a few minutes until it's as smooth
as silk and because of the rice in there
the appearance is going to change from
red to that more familiar sort of cream
of tomato orange color and at this point
we're going to add the last major
ingredient of the cream all right
besides the rice that's the other
mandatory ingredient in a bisque it's
got a have cream so we'll stir that in
not sure why I'm using a spoon a whisk
would have been better but it's too late
I'm not changing so we're going to stir
that in at this point I've taken you as
far as I can go
alright the rest is up to you you need
to adjust this until it's absolutely
perfect
meaning if it's too thick add some broth
if it's too thin reduce it a little or
let's switch to a ladle here we're going
to need that and then just as important
as texture is the taste you got to taste
this again like me you may need to add a
little more sugar maybe a little more
salt who knows you might even put a
little more Cayenne in that's been known
to happen
alright select with most recipes I do
not want you just blindly following the
ingredient amounts if you want this to
work for your taste you have to adjust
you are the Sanjay Gupta of your soup
duh shoot that was one syllable away
from being perfect but anyway what I'm
trying to say is a justice with sugar
salt and pepper until it's like the best
soup you've ever tasted and at that
point your tomato bisque is done we're
going to ladle that to some hot bowls
just put a few bowls in the back of the
stove while you're cooking they'll be
plenty warm enough by the time you're
ready to serve of course you could use a
warm oven or maybe just keep them under
your sweater but regardless we're going
to ladle that up I'm going to garnish
with a little more fresh cream on top
and some chopped basil just because it
goes so perfectly and you may remember
this garnish from such tomato based
soups as every single one I've ever done
and that right there ended up being a
beautiful tasting and looking tomato
bisque and because we use rice and not a
whole bunch of roooar cornstarch I
really like the texture of this I think
it tends to be a little silkier and
smoother and you can see here mine is
fairly thick or if you want yours a
little thinner put a little less rice or
a little more broth like I said very
easy to adjust and if you're wondering
where the heck is the toasted cheese
sandwich it's right here alright
everybody knows making tomato soup no
matter what kind you're making is simply
an excuse to eat toasted cheese
sandwiches we're not going to lie that's
actual purpose of this in fact control
room cue full-frontal and three two oh
yeah ok that's enough if you don't mind
I'm going to grab a little piece of
basil for this last bite that my friends
was a beautiful beautiful fall lunch so
know you don't need a whole basket of
sweet vine ripened tomatoes to make a
delicious tomato bisque in fact I will
argue this comes out better because you
don't but regardless of what kind of
tomatoes you end up using for this it's
an easy fast and fairly foolproof way to
make a delicious and very very
comforting and satisfying style of
tomato soup
I really do hope you give this biscuit
rye head over to food wishes calm for
all the agreement amounts and more info
as usual and as always enjoy